Matrices, Gaussian Elimination  
Introduction, The Geometry of Linear Equations, Gaussian Elimination, Singular Cases, Elimination  Matrices, Triangular Factors -LU decomposition and Row Exchanges, Inverses and Transposes, Inverse  by Gauss -Jordan method, Symmetric Matrices. Self-Learning Component: Algebra of Matrices.  Applications: Basic operations with matrices in Matlab/Python. Matrix operations and image  manipulation Matrix multiplication, inversion, and photo filters Solving linear systems.
Vector Spaces & Linear Transformations
Vector Spaces and Subspaces (definitions only), Linear Independence, Basis and Dimensions, Row  educed Echelon form, The Four Fundamental Subspaces, Rank-Nullity theorem. Linear Transformations,  Algebra of Linear transformations.Self-Learning Component: Examples of Vector Spaces and Subspaces.  Application: Systems of linear equations and college football team ranking (with an example of the Big  12) Convolution, inner product, and image processing revisited Norms, angles, and your movie choices  Interpolation, extrapolation, and climate change.
 Orthogonalization, Eigenvalues and Eigen vectors
Orthogonal Vectors and Subspaces, Orthogonal Bases, Cosines and Projections onto Lines, Projections  and Least Squares. Orthogonalization, The Gram-Schmidt Orthogonalization process, Introduction to  Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors, Properties of Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors, Cayley-Hamilton theorem  (statement only), Diagonalization of a Matrix. Application : Orthogonal matrices and 3D graphics  Discrete dynamical systems, linear transformations of the plane, and the Chaos Game Projections,  eigenvectors Matrix eigenvalues and the Google's PageRank algorithm.
Singular Value Decomposition
Quadratic Forms, Definitions of Positive definite, negative definite, positive semi-definite, negative  semi-definite, indefinite forms and matrices, Tests for Positive Definiteness, Choleskys method, Singular  Values and Singular Vectros, Image Processing by Linear Algebra, Principal Component Analysis (PCA by  the SVD and Covariance matrix), Minimum Principles. Application : Principal Component Analysis, and face recognition algorithms Social networks, clustering,